Thanks to the growth of social media platforms and
the emerging popularity of following influencers and bloggers,
earned media is incredibly important.
Now by definition, earned media is something generated by word of mouth,
buzz, or a communication going viral.
With earned, we have a whole new model by which we
evaluate data and that's through engagement.
We look beyond focusing on clicks,
advertising impressions or website views.
With earned media, we collect data and
gather insights just as we do with our other channels,
but the earned media story is often best told when you
tie these insights into that data that you've collected with your other channels.
When we measure and review our earned channels,
we want to think of it as an additive fashion.
As we add more data,
we reveal a bigger piece of the picture.
At a high level, we typically set out to answer
the following questions in the earned media space.
For starters, what conversations are taking place about my brand?
This is where we looked at tools to
evaluate all of the brand listening that you can be doing.
What about topics or themes that are being most talked about?
This can help us evaluate trends and how people are tying our brand to those trends.
Who's my audience? These are all of the folks that are talking about you.
Again, you can use that audience acronym that we reviewed earlier for this.
All of those same analytical questions apply here.
Let's consider a few avenues of earned that we might want to measure.
Let's say we received a mention on a blog article or
someone posted a tweet with a picture of our product., where can we start?
With the blog article,
we care to understand where was it written, who was it written by,
why did they write it, did we get any benefit out of this,
did they link back to us,
did we see any referral traffic, how much?
Now, what about that tweet?
This one's a little more difficult because it's
a conversation happening completely outside of us.
So for starters, we might be curious if it spurred any other conversations.
We also might want to see how influential this person is,
or perhaps we can use the opportunity to
investigate that person's individual interests to see what data we can glean.
Moving on, we also care about metrics such as our share of voice,
the sentiment and our voice of the customer.
Now, these are all avenues we explored when we review the tools available to us.
As we move on, we'll look at the ways that we can capture
insights in regards to our brand for mentions,
share of voice, and we'll look at how we can evaluate conversations happening on Reddit,
Linkedin, Quora and more.